Pass on the discussion, summary, and exercises (#367)
browserengineering/book: book/scheduling.md

Threaded style and layout
=========================

Now that we have separate browser and main threads, and now that some
operations are performed on the browser thread, our browser's thread
architecture has started to resemble that of a real
browser.[^processes] But why not move more parts of the browser into
even more threads? Wouldn't that make the browser even faster?

> [^processes]: Note that many browsers now run the browser thread and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^processes]: Note that many browsers now run some parts of the browser thread and
```

        # ...
```

It's maybe possible to move hit testing off the main thread (but very
hard) or to do hit testing against an older version of the layout

> tree, or to come up with some other technological fix. It's not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tree, or to come up with some other technological fix. Thus it's not
```

impossible to move style and layout off the main thread
"optimistically", but it's challenging. That said, browser developers
are always looking for ways to make things faster, and I expect that
at some point in the future style and layout will be moved to their
own thread. Maybe you'll be the one to do it?

Summary
=======

This chapter explained in some detail the two-thread rendering system
at the core of modern browsers. The main points to remember are:

- The browser organizes work into task queues, with tasks for things
  like running JavaScript, handling user input, and rendering the page.
- The goal is to consistently generate frames to the screen at a 60Hz
  cadence, which means a 16ms budget to draw each animation frame.
- The browser has two main threads. The main thread runs JavaScript
  and the special rendering task.
- The browser draws the display list to the screen, handles/dispatches

>   input events, and handles scrolling. The main thread communicates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  input events, and performs scrolling. The main thread communicates
```

  with the browser thread via `commit`, which synchronizes the two threads.

> Additionally, you've seen the challenges involved in moving tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you've seen how hard it is to move tasks
```

a slower animation frame rate cadence than 16ms, for example if
`render` takes say 10ms to run. Can you see why? Fix this in our
browser by using the absolute time to schedule animation frames,
instead of a fixed delay between frames. You will need to choose a
slower cadence than 16ms so that the frames don't overlap.

*Scheduling*: As more types of complex tasks end up on the event
queue, there comes a greater need to carefully schedule them to ensure
the rendering cadence is as close to 16ms as possible, and also to
avoid task starvation. Implement a task scheduler with a priority
system that balances these two needs. Test it out on a web page that
taxes the system with a lot of `setTimeout`-based tasks.

*Threaded loading*: When loading a page, our browser currently waits
for each style sheet or script resource to load in turn. This is
unnecessarily slow, especially on a bad network. Instead, make your
browser sending off all the network requests in parallel. It may be
convenient to use the `join` method on a `Thread`, which will block
the thread calling `join` until the other thread completes. This way
your `load` method can block until all network requests are complete.

> *Networking thread*: If you want an additional challenge, try this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Networking thread*: 
```

> real browsers usually have a separate thread for networking (and other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Real browsers usually have a separate thread for networking (and other
```
